Living Open Source Foundation

Living Open Source Foundation (LOSF) is a non-profit organization by
Zambian law. It was started by Zambian Santos Chibenga and Sander van
Vugt from the Netherlands in 2018, and formalized as a Zambian legal
entity in 2024. The mission statement of Living Open Source Foundation
is to foster the growth and use of open source in Africa. The motivation
for this is as follows:

Open source is about freedom of thoughts. It's also about knowledge
sharing. Linux is open source, and has become the leading computer
operating system. Kubernetes is open source, and has become the leading
platform for running applications in the cloud. Behind these is
knowledge. Knowledge has been open source for thousands of years in the
history of humanity. Free knowledge allows for the progress of mankind,
no matter where, no matter who. That is why Living Open Source
University provides structured education in Open Source technology for
free.

Education

Living Open Source Foundation provides education to different audiences
in African countries and beyond. For those who cannot afford it,
knowledge is provided for free. For professionals and companies who can
afford it, training courses are provided for a reasonable price
according to the local markets. For international (non-African)
participants, the knowledge is available as well, and international
attendees can attend courses by becoming an international member.

To provide de education, Living Open Source University (LOSU) was
started in 2024. This is a special project, where 20 students have been
allowed to study and certify for free. The mission of LOSU is to get
more certified people in African countries.

Living Open Source Foundation depends on sponsors. An important sponsor
is Linux Foundation. Linux Foundation provides courseware as well as
exam vouchers for free, allowing participants to get certified in key
open source technologies. Common certificates obtained by the LOSU
students, include Linux Foundation Certified Associate (LFCA), Linux
Foundation Certified System Administrator (LFCSA), Kubernetes Certified
Associate (KCNA), Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD) and
Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA).

Knowledge Hub

LOSF has established itself as a knowledge hub, where organizations from
African countries can find expertise in open source technologies. The
knowledge hub is seated in Lusaka, the capital of Zambia. Currently, the
expertise is used by different governmental organizations, schools and
banks. These are organizations where computers play a large role in the
business model. Many mid-size and smaller companies don't use computers,
and for that reason aren't using the services of living open source
foundation a lot.

The knowledge hub is currently staffed by different volunteers, who want
to contribute to the growth of local economies, as well as open source
in African countries. Also different international contributors are
affiliated to the living open source foundation knowledge hub.

Organization structure

The core of LOSF is the board. The board has several open source experts
from African countries, and in regular board meetings projects and
future directions are discussed and determined.

Daily management of LOSF is done by Santos Chibenga from Lusaka. Santos
is helped by co-founder Sander van Vugt, the self-appointed benevolent
dictator for live (SABDFL) - inspired by Ubuntu Canonical's Mark
Shuttleworth. Bill Sangiwa is involved as independent advisor. He has no
formal role in LOSF, but his advise is always appreciated for important
questions. All management members are doing their work without being
compensated.

LOSF also has a small staff, currently consisting of Adam, Chisha and
Leah. Adam is the coach for LOSU participants, Chisha is administrative
assistant, and Leah is responsible for finance.

LOSF cannot make profit. All money earned is invested in the work of
LOSF. It is currently spent on different things, including staff
salaries, marketing costs, student support, and sponsoring of schools in
rural areas.

The main income from LOSF is coming from donations and events. Courses
are organized in the African countries, and the annual Living Open
Source Conference (LOSCON) is organized as a knowledge event for larger
audiences.
